README.md, before:

# nixos-config

Personal nixos configurations.
No fancy `nixops`/`terraform` scripts just plain `git clone` and `rebuild-switch`.

# Quickstart

Install nixos in any way you like it.

Then simply clone this repo directly to `/etc/nixos`
or create symlink to it.

```
sudo -i
mv /etc/nixos /etc/nixos.old # just in case
git clone git@github.com:lblasc/nixos-config.git /etc/nixos
cp /etc/nixos/configuration.nix.sample /etc/nixos/configuration.nix
# edit /etc/nixos/configuration.nix and adjust machine hostname
```

Machines:

* **x1** workstation
* **merovingian** the server

Update `hardware-configuration.nix` if needed, generated one
can be found in `/etc/nixos.old`

We are ready to finish setup.

```
nixos rebuild-switch
```

It is a good practice to edit and commit files with
unprivileged user not root account.
```
chown -R lblasc: -R /etc/nixos
```

We are done!

## instalation notes for x1

```
git clone https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs.git -b nixos-20.03

cd nixpkgs/nixos

$ git diff
diff --git a/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix b/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix
index e0b558dcb0d..c7cc0b3f2e5 100644
--- a/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix
+++ b/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix
@@ -8,6 +8,9 @@ with lib;
 {
   imports = [ ./installation-cd-base.nix ];

+  # helps in case of my x1 carbon
+  boot.kernelPackages = pkgs.linuxPackages_latest;
+
   # Whitelist wheel users to do anything
   # This is useful for things like pkexec
   #
@@ -38,6 +41,8 @@ with lib;
   environment.systemPackages = [
     # Include gparted for partitioning disks.
     pkgs.gparted
+    pkgs.nvme-cli

     # Include some editors.
     pkgs.vim

$ nix-build -A config.system.build.isoImage -I nixos-config=modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-gnome.nix default.nix

$ ls -la result
lrwxrwxrwx 1 lblasc lblasc 79 Apr 22 10:15 result -> /nix/store/f6wnglqc7048gfcs8bls011j5h21gl3h-nixos-20.03pre-git-x86_64-linux.iso

$ sudo dd if=result/iso/nixos-20.03pre-git-x86_64-linux.iso of=/dev/sdX bs=1M

# x1 carbon gen7

Device           Start        End   Sectors   Size Type
/dev/nvme0n1p1    2048    1026047   1024000   500M EFI System
/dev/nvme0n1p2 1026048 1000214527 999188480 476.5G Linux filesystem

cryptsetup luksFormat /dev/nvme0n1p2
cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/nvme0n1p2

mkfs.xfs -L root /dev/mapper/root

# nixpkgs pinning
https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/62832
https://discourse.nixos.org/t/build-nixos-config-without-environment-dependencies-and-have-nixos-option-nixos-rebuild-support/6940/3

```

Commit message:

simplify hostname configuration, update README

README.md, after:

# nixos-config

Personal nixos configurations.
No fancy `nixops`/`terraform` scripts just plain `git clone` and `rebuild-switch`.

One oddity is that I won't be using NixOS channels instead `niv` will be
managing `pkgs/sources.json`. Instead calling `nix-channel --update` we will have
nice helper command `nixos-niv update`. At one point I will switch to nix flakes
which should provide much cleaner way of managing nixpkgs versions and overlays,
until then `niv` can gurantee reproducibility of nixpkgs.

# Quickstart

Install nixos in any way you like it.

Then simply clone this repo directly to `/etc/nixos`
or create symlink to it and set desired hostname.

* **x1** workstation
* **merovingian** the server

```
sudo -i
mv /etc/nixos /etc/nixos.old # just in case
git clone git@github.com:lblasc/nixos-config.git /etc/nixos
echo -n x1 > /etc/nixos/hostname # set machine hostname
```

Update `hardware-configuration.nix` if needed, generated one
can be found in `/etc/nixos.old`

Only for the first time `nixos-rebuild switch` needs to be
explicitly runned with `nixpkgs` path provided by `niv`!
Afterwards it won't be necessary to specify it.

```
nixpkgsSrc=$(nix-build /etc/nixos/pkgs -A nixpkgsSrc --no-out-link)
nixos-rebuild -I nixpkgs=$nixpkgsSrc switch
```

At this point we should have our system up and running!

It is a good practice to edit and commit files with
unprivileged user not root account.
```
chown -R lblasc: -R /etc/nixos
```

## instalation notes for x1

```
git clone https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs.git -b nixos-20.03

cd nixpkgs/nixos

$ git diff
diff --git a/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix b/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix
index e0b558dcb0d..c7cc0b3f2e5 100644
--- a/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix
+++ b/nixos/modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-base.nix
@@ -8,6 +8,9 @@ with lib;
 {
   imports = [ ./installation-cd-base.nix ];

+  # helps in case of my x1 carbon
+  boot.kernelPackages = pkgs.linuxPackages_latest;
+
   # Whitelist wheel users to do anything
   # This is useful for things like pkexec
   #
@@ -38,6 +41,8 @@ with lib;
   environment.systemPackages = [
     # Include gparted for partitioning disks.
     pkgs.gparted
+    pkgs.nvme-cli

     # Include some editors.
     pkgs.vim

$ nix-build -A config.system.build.isoImage -I nixos-config=modules/installer/cd-dvd/installation-cd-graphical-gnome.nix default.nix

$ ls -la result
lrwxrwxrwx 1 lblasc lblasc 79 Apr 22 10:15 result -> /nix/store/f6wnglqc7048gfcs8bls011j5h21gl3h-nixos-20.03pre-git-x86_64-linux.iso

$ sudo dd if=result/iso/nixos-20.03pre-git-x86_64-linux.iso of=/dev/sdX bs=1M

# x1 carbon gen7

Device           Start        End   Sectors   Size Type
/dev/nvme0n1p1    2048    1026047   1024000   500M EFI System
/dev/nvme0n1p2 1026048 1000214527 999188480 476.5G Linux filesystem

cryptsetup luksFormat /dev/nvme0n1p2
cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/nvme0n1p2

mkfs.xfs -L root /dev/mapper/root

# nixpkgs pinning
https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/62832
https://discourse.nixos.org/t/build-nixos-config-without-environment-dependencies-and-have-nixos-option-nixos-rebuild-support/6940/3

```
